State manager documentation updated (#1131)
iotaledger/iota-wiki: next/docs/wasp/docs/guide/core_concepts/state_manager.md

2. state index in 4 byte unsigned integer little endian format,
3. number `40` in 4 byte unsigned integer little endian format representing the length of state commitment: `20` bytes for trie root and
   `20` bytes for hash of a block, which was last committed to make this state (block with the same index as state),
4. trie root in `20` bytes,
5. the mentioned block's hash in `20` bytes,
6. number `0` in 1 byte unsigned integer format representing snapshot version,
7. bytes representing mentioned block,
8. bytes representing trie of the state.

The node that makes a snapshot can serve it over http and new nodes can use this to speed up the catch up. Serving the snapshots
over http is beyond the scope of Wasp and should be done in addition. Wasp is only responsible for making snapshots in local
(configurable by `snapshots.localPath` parameter) folder and obtaining them on start when needed from the same local folder or from
configured (by `snapshots.networkPaths` parameter) http addresses. A folder, serving snapshot files over http must contain
`INDEX` file with new line separated list of snapshot file names.

> If chain is started with empty database (usually, if the database hasn't yet been created or it was deleted), the node checks, if
> it can load a snapshot: it scans local folder and all the network addresses for available snapshot files. In local folder it reads
> all the files with names that satisfy search pattern `*-*.snap`. In each network location Wasp reads all the files listed in `INDEX`
> file of that location. Wasp reads a state index and a commitment from the contents of these files. File names are not used to obtain
> this information and full snapshot files are not (down)loaded yet. Among all the available snapshot files, the node chooses the one
> with largest state index and loads it to the store. If there are several files with the same largest state index, the node tries
> to load them one by one starting from the local ones until one snapshot is loaded correctly. If loading fails for all candidates,
> the node is started with empty database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a chain starts with an empty database (usually if the database hasn't been created yet or was deleted), the node checks if
it can load a snapshot: it scans the local folder and all the network addresses for available snapshot files. In the local folder, it reads
all the files with names that satisfy the search pattern `*-*.snap`. In each network location, Wasp reads all the files listed in `INDEX`
file of that location. Wasp reads a state index and a commitment from the contents of these files. File names are not used to obtain
this information, and full snapshot files are not (down)loaded yet. The node chooses 
the one with the largest state index and loads it to the store among all available snapshot files. If several files have the same largest state index, 
the node loads them one by one, starting from the local ones until one snapshot is loaded correctly. If loading fails for all candidates,
the node will start with an empty database.
```

> To load a specific snapshot, `snapshots.snapshotsToLoad` parameter can be used. In that case the node searches for snapshots with
> block hash, provided in the parameter. Once again if loading of all such found files fails, the node is started with empty database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `snapshots.snapshotsToLoad` parameter to load a specific snapshot. In that case, the node searches for snapshots with
the block hash provided in the parameter. Once again, if loading all found files fails, the node starts with an empty database.
```

> After a snapshot is loaded, earlier blocks (ones with smaller state index than snapshot) cannot be retrieved and committed to the DB
> (this is discussed in [Obtaining blocks section](#obtaining-blocks)). This constraint can cause problems (especially in case of reorg),
> if loaded snapshot is too recent. To avoid that, making snapshots is delayed by `snapshots.delay` states. E.g., if `snapshots.period`
> is `100` and `snapshots.delay` is `20`, then snapshot index `100` will be produced, when block index `120` is committed, snapshot index
> `200` will be produced, when snapshot index `220` is committed, etc... For the data to be available after this delay, `snapshot.delay`
> value must be considerably smaller than `stateManager.pruningMinStatesToKeep`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a snapshot is loaded, earlier blocks (ones with a smaller state index than the snapshot) cannot be retrieved and committed to the DB
(this is discussed in [Obtaining blocks section](#obtaining-blocks)). This constraint can cause problems (especially in reorg)
if the loaded snapshot is too recent. To avoid that, making snapshots is delayed by `snapshots.delay` states. E.g., if `snapshots.period`
is `100` and `snapshots.delay` is `20`, then snapshot index `100` will be produced. When block index `120` is committed, snapshot index
`200` will be produced, when snapshot index `220` is committed, etc... For the data to be available after this delay, `snapshot.delay`
value must be considerably smaller than `stateManager.pruningMinStatesToKeep`.
```

## Obtaining blocks

Requests to state manager contain the state commitment and the state manager must ensure, that block (state) with this
commitment is present in the DB. It is possible that to satisfy the request state manager needs to retrieve
several blocks. However this cannot be done in one step as only the commitment of the requested block is known. For this
reason state (block) contains a commitment of previous block. Previous block must be committed prior to committing the
requested block. And this logic can be extended up to the block, which is already present in the DB, or until the origin
state is reached.

E.g., let's say, that the last state in the DB is state index `10` and request to have state index `12` is received.
State manager does this in following steps:

> 1. Block index `12` is obtained and commitment of block index `11` is known.
> 2. As commitment of block (state) index `11` is known, the block may be requested and obtained. After obtaining block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Block index `12` is obtained, and commitment of block index `11` is known.
2. As the commitment of block (state) index `11` is known, the block may be requested and obtained. After obtaining block
```

- `pruningMinStatesToKeep` : minimum number of old states to keep in the DB. Note that if `BlockKeepAmount` in
  governance contract is larger than this value, then more old states will be kept.
  Default is 10k. 0 (and below) disables pruning.
- `pruningMaxStatesToDelete`: maximum number of states to prune in one run. This is needed in order not to grab
  state manager's time for pruning for too long. Default is 1k.

### Snapshots

The following parameters may be provided in section `snapshots`:

> - `snapshotsToLoad`: the comma list of `<chainID>:<hash>` pairs, where chain `<chainID>` must be started using snapshot with block hash `<hash>`.
>   The list can also contain `<hash>` entry. This hash will be used for other chains, which are not configured separately. There is
>   no point in having several `<hash>` or `<chainID>:<hash>` entries with same `<chainID>` as only the last such entry is taken into
>   account. Note that if chain is configured to start from some snapshot and the snapshot is not available (or other error occurs
>   during snapshot loading), chain is started with empty DB. Default is empty list, which means, that the newest available snapshot
>   will be loaded for every chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `snapshotsToLoad`: the comma sepparated list of `<chainID>:<hash>` pairs, where chain `<chainID>` must be started using snapshot with block hash `<hash>`.
  The list can also contain `<hash>` entry. This hash will be used for other chains, which are not configured separately. There is
  no point in having several `<hash>` or `<chainID>:<hash>` entries with the same `<chainID>` as only the last such entry is taken into
  account. Note that if the chain is configured to start from some snapshot and the snapshot is not available (or another error occurs
  during snapshot loading), the chain will start with an empty DB. The default is an empty list, which means that the newest available snapshot
  will be loaded for every chain.
```

- `period`: how often state snapshots should be made: 1000 meaning "every 1000th state", 0 meaning "making snapshots is disabled".
  Snapshots are disabled by default.

> - `delay`: how many states to delay making of the snapshot; it must be considerably smaller than `stateManager.pruningMinStatesToKeep`.
>   Default is 20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `delay`: how many states to delay making the snapshot; it must be considerably smaller than `stateManager.pruningMinStatesToKeep`.
  The default is 20.
```
